###### 23/02/19

## Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP)
-----

### General
 > A very old wifi security standard which can be broken by a basic laptop and publically available software in a few minutes

 **WEP** uses the RC4 protocol (a stream cipher used to generate *psuedo-random* numbers) to encrypt the packets of information as they enter/leave the network via access point or network card.

As soon as packets are recieved, they are is decrypts them.

Each byte of data is encrypted using a different **packet key**. Therefore a hacker will only gain access to one packet's data.

WEP Logic:
- The plain text is XOR-ed with an infinitely long keystream. 
- A packet key is dervied from this key stream which the security of the algorithm is based on.


### Packet Keys

Formed by combinimg a pre-shared password, a state array and an initialisation vector.

**Pre-shared Password**:
- The *same pre-shared password* (40-bit encryption key), is used by all users for each packet that is transmitted (MAJOR SECURITY FLAW)

**State Array**:
- Series of numbers which are scrambled and then used by RC4 to construct the key stream.

**Initialisation Vector**:
- A *3-Byte random number* generated by the computer. 
- It is concatenated with the cipher text and sent to the reciever to be stripped off before decrypting the cipher text


### Widely Known Flaws

- **Keys are not changed regularily**. Many clients sharing the same key for long periods of time is a huge security vulnerability.
- **IV is too small**, a 24-bit vector can easily be cracked by a modern day computer.
- Hackers can observe network traffic, perform static analysis to determine patterns in the key stream to decrypt cipher text.
- If the hacker gets the IV (which is very easy through **static analysis**), combining this with the **RC4 key scheduling weakness** means the key can be resovered after analysing a small ammount of traffic.

